## Week Four Readings: Fitting and evaluating alternative models (including multi-model inference)


* Boettiger, C., G. Coop, and P. Ralph. 2012. Is your phylogeny informative? Measuring the power of comparative methods. Evolution doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2011.01574.x

This paper covers the importance of picking important PCM and how to use simulated data to get power needed to make inference from a phylogeny. Here the pcm "Phylogenetic Monte Carlo" r-package
was introduced. 

Some issues with phylogenetic methods are: 
1. Does the model reflect the biological reality of evolution and a meaningful hypotheses? 
2. Do we have the adequate data to fit these models and the ability to choose between them?

Without results that include uncertainty, model fits, or power it is hard to interpret the results accurately. 

Solutions:
Use parametric bootstraps. There are a handful of other methods that have been used -- phylogenetic ANOVA, likelihood ratios under BM

Methods that test for power:
1. Qualification of the model choice -- this is using BM likelihood ratios
2. Information criteria often doesn't choose the right model
3. Applied to non-nested models
4. The simplest model is the best -- if BM and OU are the same - choose BM


*Caution must be used when choosing a lambda.* Zero might arise on smaller trees and larger trees can allow for greater accuracy. 



* Freckleton, R. P. 2009. The seven deadly sins of comparative analysis. J Evol Biol 22:1367-1375.

1. Putting too much faith into models with low R^2
	High R^2 and effect size means a tight fit with a positive slope, you can have a high R^2 score but small decrease in slope 
2. Reporting both PI and PC analysis
	PI -- phylogenetic independent 
	PC -- Phylogenetic contrast 
	Think about phylogenetic signal
3. Not testing distributional assumptions 
	Checking your data -- Is it normal?
4. Data dredging 
	Over using models and end up getting false positive 
	You can weight all the models AIC and average all models (mix models)
	This is a debate if we think 
5. Treating residuals as data
	
6. Ignoring alternative models 
7. Ignoring quality control of data 



* Pennell MW, FitzJohn RG, Cornwell WK, Harmon LJ. 2015. Model Adequacy and the Macroevolution of Angiosperm Functional Traits. The American Naturalist 186: E33–E50.

Testing for model accuracy. This paper focuses on finding the fit of a model to a universe of possible models

Steps:
1. Fit model of trait evolution
2. Construct unit tree from model params
	Unit trees just move time 
3. Calculate test statistics on contrasts
4. Simulate many BM datasets
5. Calculate test statistics on contrasts
6. Compare simulations to observations test statistics


Notes:
Information theory 

prior with baseysain
if trying to fit is likelihood

R^2 is the explanation of the variance (effect size)

Ppl will ask for interspecies variation 




